There's an interesting quirk in almost
all of Wes Anderson's movies that I
love.
>> wish I could breathe underwater.
Me, too, kid. Wes Anderson is obviously
known for these hyper-stylized, flat,
almost symmetrical compositions. But,
there's a trick to spotting the
emotional core of any of his movies. If
you want to find the most intimate,
emotionally vulnerable moment, just look
for a place where his usual style
suddenly shifts into something much more
conventional. This is disgraceful, and
it's beneath the standards of the Grand
Budapest. This moment from The Grand
Budapest Hotel is one of the only scenes
shot in a standard 3/4 over-the-shoulder
setup.
>> because of the war. I've heard some
people say that Wes Anderson's stylized
artificiality makes the films feel
emotionally distant and robs them of
dramatic impact. But, there's usually
these moments where suddenly all the
artifice kind of falls away, and you're
left with something very vulnerable and
human. These moments usually take me by
surprise, and I think the sudden
revelation of very naturalistic emotion
in the midst of a world that otherwise
feels like a fairy-tale storybook
creates a really unique effect that
wouldn't be possible if there weren't
all of those layers of artifice there to
strip away.